Next up we'll see where this starts to become a lot more useful if we have an object like a Person object
where we have a first name.
How about share.
What is share his full name.
Well thanks to Wikipedia I have it Sherrilyn Sarkeesian so we'll make first name Sherrilyn will make
last Sarkeesian and let's also add in a nickname that student nickname camel case it which will be share.
All right so we have this object.
If I add a method to the object let's do something simple like Greece or how about full name.
Let's do a method called full name.
We can use the shorthand that we saw a couple videos ago or I could do it this way.
I'll do the shorthand though I think it's nicer and inside of this method let's council about log the
keyword this to start.
And now let's run it.
So person Dot.
Full name.
Execute it.
What do we get.
Okay.
So this time it is not council that logging the window.
It's concerned that logging something else.
Compare that to say hi.
Which is a function not in an object.
We got the window object the global execution context the global scope.
The window is what this is right here versus here.
The value of this is different.
The value of this is the object itself.
The person object right here.
So the value of this has been set to a different object not the window but the object that this method
is inside of.
Now why is this useful in the next video we'll see the head.
This is not always the case and depending on how you call full name it could reference that window.
But we're going to put that aside for now.
Let's talk about why this would be useful.
Why do you care about the current object that you are inside of it allows us to reference these properties
or other methods so we can have a method that is aware of the other contents in its object.
So for full name if I wanted to print out first name and last name together I could reference this dot
first let's start there.
Refresh my page I'll call person up full name and we're getting Sherrilyn.
So this again is a reference to the object dot first.
Well give me this value so I can now update this to instead console dot log.
How about first.
So this dot first space and then afterwards this dot last.
And then if I wanted to use the nickname let's just start here.
Make sure it works.
Refresh my page.
Try again.
Sherrilyn Sarkeesian and then afterwards let's do a.k.a. this dot nickname tried again.
Now this is a good opportunity for us to use these structuring we're having to write this quite a bit.
I could add a separate line and d structure those properties from this first last nickname.
I have to camel case nickname equals this.
Now I can remove this from here and here it should still work.
Let's verify Oh did I not save area.
This needs to be uppercase one more time.
Now we get Cherilyn Sarkisian a.k.a. Cher.
And if I change one of those values in person.
Let's go with nickname person.
Nickname equals Cher with a bunch of R's in all caps.
So now person has a new nickname.
If I call a full name again that changes reflected.
It's looking up the value of nickname on the current execution scope which is what this refers to.
And it's set to this object.
So now we have the ability to write an object or a method that is aware of the object it lives in which
means we can use objects not just to store different methods because they're related like we had add
and subtract and multiply and divide we group them together as a nice way of of just making a little
container for our methods that are similar.
But now we have a way of also interacting with properties with other values or even other methods.
So our object can now be a little self-contained world where we can have variables we can have these
properties.
This is a very simple example but I'll show you some other examples as we go on.
We have a little more to talk about with the keyword this in the next video but then we're just going
to see a bunch of examples of using this in methods and you'll be able to see hopefully why it is a
really really nice tool to have why you would want to do this.
So let me show you one more example here with the same object.
We could also add another method to the object and call a different method using this.
So we have full name.
Let's make let's make a method called bio print bio
and what I want it to do is get the full name from full name so we'll call this method and then print
something else we'll do like Sherrilyn Sarkeesian a.k.a. Cher is a person that will be the bio.
So I'm going to change this to return instead of console dot log.
So we now return that string and then instead of print bio I can call this dot full name.
I just have to use this if I just called Full Name It would not work.
We need this.
If I tried it I call print bio person dot print bio reference error full name is not defined.
So we have to use this to reference the object.
I'm going to save that to a variable we'll call it full name then I will console dot log from here just
put let's do a template string put full name in there and then is a person.
And that's the entire bio.
So we'll try running it again.
And now we get Sherrilyn Sarkeesian a.k.a. Cher is a person so we called a method that is located within
the same object using this in that method we actually accessed three different properties first last
nickname.
Using this using D structuring to make it cleaner but we're still referencing this the value of this
in both of these situations here.
Both methods is referring to the object that they live in.
And that's a great tool.
It's a great thing to be able to reference and you'll see a couple of examples as I mentioned as we
finish up this section.
But of course there's a bit of a twist here in the next video you'll see that sometimes this may not
refer to the object.
It could refer to something else.